So that's how attention you're are going to continue with the rest.
Example let's have some look at something fun.
So this is from a research paper where your show banjo was one of the co-authors and this is a translation
example from English French So you've got the agreement on the European area was signed in August 1992.
Full stop.
And then this whole translated into French law called Soul zone economy.
And I see it in me.
But one of clubs of all dues for you and Paul Anderson's.
There we go.
That's me showing off.
We haven't learned it in a while but so basically what is going on here.
The trend this these white dots is where the neural network was paying attention to as it was translating.
So remember like the way it's so those white dots they signify the way on every single word as it was
translated.
So we gave them all that for this luxury VIP super power of seeing what's in the in the whole input
so there's a whole input.
And so we gave the neural network a little luxury to look at the input every single time as we just
discussed.
And then we observed what did it do.
So we kind of like in our stuff I love these a lot of the things we're studying in neural net as if
it was an alien or some kind of another species and we're trying to see what it is thinking or doing.
So let's have a look.
You can see that here.
So here it's pretty straightforward.
It's frustrating.
It is saying to construct things like word by word so first word is translated into first word second
word.
So the second word is the second or third word third or third word comes from the third word and so
on.
But then when you get to LA it's not just looking at the word but it's also looking at the word area.
Very interesting.
So they're quite far apart.
Well because in French there are two genders law all female and male and each one of them has a different.
So if a female is a lot for male he said Look eat.
And then for plural you actually say something else you say like an eagle should be the areas in French
should be left L E S results.
Like with an S M and so areas there is but then this one would change to a plural so we actually have
one for female one for male and one for plural.
I know you like the French French supercup is not.
It's a really fun language but it's it's aspecific of the language.
And so the machine knows this algorithm knows this and it looks OK.
So I want to translate the.
But in order to just say I need more information so it's paying attention.
As we saw through the weights to the war to the now and it's very clever it didn't go for the adjective.
It is an adjective European economic I guess adjectives didn't pay attention to the adjectives.
Maybe a little bit here maybe by accident but it paid a Aquatica significant attention to the word area.
Very interesting.
Right.
OK.
So and decided to put lot which is correct.
Next is like zone.
So here you can see it's paying attention to area again mostly like a little bit.
To this I don't really know why.
Maybe it's like anticipating something or not natural then economy.
Again it's Pantages right.
We're a little bit too being European interstage European.
OK.
So you can see it's kind of like and here's your it it's reversed.
Right so here you go.
In English you go the European Economic Area in France you go.
LA area economic European So absolutely the opposite way and the machine is paying attention in the
correct order of that with all OK then we have this part.
This is interesting because here you have was assigned two words in French I have three words I see.
It's the composer is the time like in English we have lots of times we have almost perfect 10 years
past perfect present for the French that you also have a lot of time and this was called picosecond
present and so
was signed.
So I had that is that part and here is really cool because if you study French You'll remember that
you haven't been the cases that for it to say like this.
This construct of say oh I hope this is in the if not you can correct me but this construct is in order
to create it.
You need like these words are interdependent so depending on what's what's
what word do you have here is the supporting verb what Verby half years supporting war will be either
avoir or être and this case is avoir because your main word is être.
It's a bit it might sound a bit confusing but the point is that you in order to decide on these two
words you cannot decide on them one by one you can say was translated this time as it is to decide on
these two words.
You have to look at these two words together.
So it was like was signed.
OK then we know that it's it's Iott and then so and then see here is.
So there that's why you have this very very interesting stuff.
And so that was the translation.
That's the sources from the paper if you want to have a look.
And then finally we have this other paper where Christopher Manning is one of the authors from Stanford
not mistaken.
So here is a comparison again this is related to recession as you can see.
Attention is a very powerful mechanism very well use in translation because there differencing languages
are quite can be quite significant.
And that tension really helps.
So here you just got a comparison of different models all of these models at the top.
Yeah all of them have attention as far as I know.
I'm not sure about this this Black want but I think it also has an edge and you're old and have attention
and these this one doesn't have attention.
And on the X-axis you have how long the sentences are how many sentence how many words and blow is the
score.
It's called the bilingual evaluation under study and it's a score that algorithms or even humans are
used like that score is used to rate people and and my models on how they're well they're translating.
And so like a score of 25 is 20 25 is pretty good.
I'm not an expert in blood like as far as I know it should be like between 0 and 1.
What I'm understanding here is they're like multiplying by 100 but it doesn't really matter at this
stage like what we're interested in is the relative contrast.
So like the state of that mortals right now they achieve like just over 30.
But there I don't think I've seen a model that achieved over 40.
And this paper actually was 2015 paper so it's really egregious.
But the point is that if we compare them side by side against each other you will see that when you
don't have attention you you're doing quite OK for up to three hours and then you drop off.
So because the sentences get so long you don't you're not paying attention.
You can just translate them easily but with attention even when the scientists get long Like been over
40 you kind of flatlined so you get a more or less consistent output outcome of your translation.
So that's almost it.
Before I just remembered one more thing before we finish off.
There's also this is called global attention.
When you have this whole park there's also a concept called what's it called it's called local attention
when instead of this whole Red Square you only look at like two or three words in the sun like that
for example and then out of them you have the waves and so on.
Or just a couple words and that is more similar to what humans do.
Like if you have like a 20 word sentence and you're translating it or if you're trying to respond to
it you don't look at the whole sentence every time you think I when you you just look at parts of this.
And that's more close to what humans do.
And it's actually better and better computationally for machines a bit harder to implement.
Bit harder for you to like the the mathematics and the conceptually horas is easier to kind of brute
force the global tetch rather than picking out where we're going to look at it locally and stuff.
But it just that you are where there's two different concepts as global tension local tension.
The one we talked about is global Tige.
And if you'd like to learn more about attention then the paper is just having a look at this called
effective approaches to attention based neuro translation by means tongue.
If I'm pressing it correctly and others including crews from Manning and 2015 paper again this is about
translation but very very similar conceptually.
So everything you'll learn there is still applicable for chat boards.
And and plus you'll get some additional examples of how sex sex is used in translation.
All right so I've opened the door and I look forward to seeing an extent.
Then enjoy.
Natural Language Processing.